# Video gUO5U07s8po

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gUO5U07s8po

---

## Transcript

and they were selling to dentists and car dealerships and pest control companies and even we did a deal with like a bunch of limo drivers. What enabled you guys to scale as fast as you guys did? >> We didn't allow them to stay on the team if they couldn't live up to three appointments scheduled, two demos held, and a chance to close one deal every day. Are they good enough at 25 million? Are they still able to do it at 50 million, at 75 million, and so on? And some of them were able to take that jump, and some were not. [Music] Hey guys, I'm Riley Sard, co-founder of Orbital. Really excited today to have Nathaniel Hancock, chief sales officer at Podium.

Reason why we invited Nathaniel onto the show is he actually was the third sales hire at Podium. was what 18 employees when he joined and uh he's now seen the organization grow to 350 plus sales folks globally and and seen podium scale all the way from about a million in revenue at 200 million plus and so today we're chatting about how to build a really efficient go to market machine at each stage of the journey of scaling a vertical software business thanks for coming to the show then >> yeah excited to be here uh big orbital fans and excited to share a little bit of our journey and any learnings that we can to help other folks I'm curious when you first came into podium like was your your mindset coming into the business and did you expect that at 350 headcount you would still be both at the business and leading the uh the entire go to market division? Yeah, it's a it's a great question. I mean generally I like to stay at a company long term. I know 10 years at any SAS technology company is very rare but I spent eight or nine years at my previous company and I think you know for anyone who's looking to join like an early stage startup what I have experienced is you just got to bet on about an 8-year journey regardless right now you can stay short you can stay for four years or however long you want to do that but from you know early early stage to like actually seeing like some sort of meaningful growth and identity as a company you really are looking at about a 6 to 8 year journey I I definitely came in thinking I want to be here for the long haul. I also personally have just like a vision in my mind of like what I wanted to accomplish before I would leave podium.

And that was a level of performance, efficiency, identity that was really important to me. But after coming in here, first off, if you meet our co-founders, they're amazing. They're super energetic. Uh they're almost intoxicating in terms of their energy and enthusiasm for what Podium is doing. And then when you meet our customers and then you see the product we deliver, I mean, it's really like a salesperson's dream.

So, I've loved being here for 10 years. Hopefully can be here for longer. >> Yeah. Well, today we're really going to be diving into the three phases of Podium's growth. And I think something from uh from the outside and from our conversations that I've always been impressed by with Podium and what you guys have built is building the right level of process and the right go to market motion for that phase of the business.

Today in the show, we're going to break down each phase and talk about what did you guys do well, what did you guys add in, what was maybe too soon, and what what did you guys add in a bit late and and we'll go deep in each phase. But first, just to kick it off, when you look back at where you were at 1 million all the way to where you guys are today, what were those three phases of of growth of the go to market motion? >> Yeah, I I'm you know, I thought about this a lot and there's probably three major phases that I look at my as my time at podium and that first one is like the validation phase. Is what we're doing working? Do we have a product? Do we have something that customers want? Can we put salespeople behind it and get produ production and success out of it? And essentially validating and creating that identity of like who we are. So maybe it's like a little bit of validation and foundational building. And then you know the second phase and I I would call that acceleration phase.

How do you take what you've built and then really supercharge it for growth that's sustainable for years, right? You know 40 50% growth year-over-year. And there's a lot of acceleration and changes and adjustments we had to make to capture the opportunity. And then I would say the thing that I've learned over the last few years, especially as the global SAS market has changed, is what I would call efficiency and scale, right? Okay, great. You can you can accelerate with all the resources that you need to to do that. But what happens in a world when those resources maybe are not available? Can you still build something efficient that scales and that achieves really remarkable growth and what are all the changes you need to make in order to make that happen? And and I also want to be very clear, by no means have I done this on my own.

Um, our CEO and our co-founders have been super involved. I've had great sales leaders that have been with me every step of the way and some who have been with me during certain phases that were incredible and then they left to go do exciting things as well. But um, but yeah, those are probably the three. Let's start by talking about that first phase of iteration and really nailing the both the customer and sort of what the motion is to reach that customer. Something that's always like struck me as interesting about podium's product is it is like very horizontal but obviously I'm sure there are certain segments you guys found really work and and we see this with a lot of our customers.

There's like that evolution of well I could sell to everyone but if I sell to everyone I'm not really going to be perfect for for one segment. So yeah, I'd be curious in in that sort of phase one, how did you guys approach iterating to the right customer segment? And how did you balance this kind of horizontal nature of the product with also probably the need for a bit more of a focused product at some point early on? >> Yeah. And this is like the hard part too when you're in a revenue world, right? Because just because there is money to be made doesn't mean that you actually should chase it. And and I think as revenue leaders, that's always a really hard world for us to live in. you know, when you've got a deal on the table, you're like, but it works and it makes sense.

And I can think of like so many examples of deals that we either did did do and regret it, you know, because it wasn't our ideal customer profile or where our focus should be. And then a lot of deals that we did do that ended up being really great for podium long term in terms of new verticals and and industries we wanted to play in. Again, kudos to like I had a president early on who uh helped to really guide and direct that focus. And then our CEO um you know, he's been really good at kind of we've had a great relationship of a little bit of a tug-of-war at times where if I want to go do a deal and he says, "Well, I don't think we're going to do that deal." And having that um that conflict is a good thing, right? Trucks and balances. >> Yeah.

Exactly. Early on when I came into podium, you know, they had they were doing about a million of revenue and they really were selling to like anything and everything. And in fact, I remember when I first came in the first couple of months, I mean, they were selling to dentists and car dealerships and pest control companies and even we did a deal with like a bunch of limo drivers. And I remember thinking like, okay, we're a little bit all over the place. And we also only had three sales reps in the entire country.

So there was this unlimited amount of TAM and customers that we could sell. The challenge that that creates is you just don't know what you're really building for and what you're hiring for and what you're like setting quotas for and and everything else. And myself and a and a few of us on the sales side, we basically said, "Okay, we're going to start to get really specific and we're going to specialize." >> So we took one of our sales reps and we said, "You're going to sell to automotive dealers in Florida." And we took another one of our sales reps and said, "We're going to sell, you're going to sell dentist office in California." And they of course were like, "But wait a minute. What about all the automotive dealers outside of Florida?" And we said, "Yeah, we're not going to worry about them right now. We're going to focus." And and you know, as a sales leader, that's always a really hard world, right? Because no sales rep is going to like you after that, right? All they're going to see and hear is you took territory and opportunity away from me.

But I really believe strongly in specialization. I believe strongly in ownership of your territory. And that if you dig deep, you'll find a lot more gold than if you try to go wide. And so we got real specific around territories, codes, verticals, and industries. >> And that created a world where those reps basically doubled their productivity uh each of them.

Yeah. We took them from a global down to like zip codes. And we saw that their personal productivity doubled actually. Um and so that was the the the initial framework of our entire motion. And so we then took that and said okay how do we go build you know a hiring plan behind that motion and start to look at the world in terms of how many folks do we want to have in automotive and how big should our territories be and what should those quotas be and how is our lead flow coming in and then what could we outbound into in order for us to hit and yeah we just started from there and and I built out a model that first year we said okay what if we could go from a million to six million what would have to be true.

>> And then we built a second model that said if we how do we go from a million to 8 million, what would have to be true? And then I built a third model that said to go from a million to 10 million, what would have to be true? And as we looked at each of those models, there wasn't anything in there that we felt was out of our control in terms of constraints to say we couldn't do the 10 million. >> Yeah. >> First year, we end up doing 11 million actually in our first year. >> Yeah, that was really exciting. And and and again, it all came down to really building the specialization so that we could easily add new reps in to the model without a bunch of disruption.

If you allow the the reps to handle the entire world, well, every hire now becomes a conflict. Whereas, if you tighten up their world and say you're going to sell to this, that way when you make a new hire, you're not taking anything away from them. It allowed us to hire in a really efficient and productive way that was great for everybody and didn't feel like a negative. And then there was examples of where we we chose not to go into certain businesses. For example, we looked at the churn profile of some of our industries and just said, "Hey, for whatever reason, this particular customer is less likely to stay with podium long term >> and so we're not going to sell to them any longer." And we actually came up with a acronym, the four C's that basically said if they don't meet all four of these criteria, we will not sell to them as a business or an industry.

And so >> what sort of stuff? >> Yeah. So the things that we looked at were like customer lifetime value, are they in a competitive market or a competitive geography, >> which is positive. >> Yeah, it was it was a positive. We wanted more competition, right? for our particular product, more competition was better because people are buying our solution, which is a kind of a marketing and communications tool. So, >> makes sense.

>> You had to have an unlimited customer volume, meaning you weren't constrained by any sort of parameters. So, to give you an example, like early on, we were selling to wedding photographers and we realized that at the end of the day, no matter how good you are as a wedding photographer, you only have 52 weekends that you could really support. Whereas like an automotive dealer in theory, you have unlimited customers that you could bring on to the dealership, right? And so we started to look at those type of things like customer volume, customer lifetime, competition. And then the final C was actually high consideration purchase. Is this something that a customer using Podium has customers that are actually taking time to consider them versus another business like theirs? And so if you if we couldn't say yes to those four C's, either we wouldn't go into them as an industry or we told the sales rep we wouldn't allow them to close that deal.

And that was hard. >> Oh yeah. I mean it's it's it's incredibly difficult to actually look at customers who are paying you money today and and walk away. I have so many questions. I'm curious.

First, you mentioned out of the gate dentists and >> dentists and car dealerships. >> Car dealers. When you started, like was that already obvious? Was it already obvious to you that those were the two winning segments or or did you guys and you said you put the first couple reps on that or was there almost like there was some period of time when you guys were targeting five or six of these and then you surfaced that those two were the best? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, a lot of that work had been done by our CEO and co-founder because they had done a lot of their own stuff.

>> So, they knew that, hey, this was working well. I think they actually initially built the product as a car dealership solution and so they had kind of some early premise around that. But but when they started to hire sales reps. So at the time I joined there was three reps. >> You know those reps didn't have the same parameters.

So they were selling in to anyone and everyone. I remember um there was a fitness studio that was was they were selling a lot of this like fitness studio that I think somehow came inbound and so they started to run with it. There was a lot of noise in the customer set and who they were selling to. And so I sat down with the co-founders and said, "Okay, where do we feel like we're getting the best return on our our investment like highest price point, started to understand those four C's, highest close ratio, where were our leads coming from?" And based on that, we identified particularly in the in the early days, dentists and automotive dealers as the two areas we want to spend our time with. So it was looking at all of that funnel data to see like close rate, price point, churn, all of that as as the initial decision makers.

Why two instead of one or or three? And especially given these are like two actually like very different. I'm sure they they match all four C's, but those are two like obviously very different kind of customer segments. >> Yeah, that and that's a great question. That actually is one of the areas where myself and the original, you know, the co-founder, we originally had some conflict because I think in their mind, they probably would have wanted to just do automotive. And I and I said, hey, I think it's early to make a definitive decision on one particular market and limit our TAM too much.

And we've got enough data in both categories that tells us we should at least explore both. And the commitment I made to them is if at a certain point one really wins out, that's the path we'll go down. But I thought it was still a little early. The other thing I'm really a huge huge proponent of is in any decision you make when it comes to like the market you go to, you have to have at least two sales reps in each of those. And so that was the other thing is, you know, I I didn't know if we had enough information yet to make a decision >> based on one rep's feedback, right? That was the other problem is, you know, I I could tell you, Riley, that automotive is the best market ever, the worst market ever, and you don't know unless there's a second data point.

And you know, one person's attitude towards something can really impact your decision if you don't have a second data point. And so what I told them early on is, hey, let me take two reps and put them in dental, two reps and put them in auto, and let's just see what happens. And let's use that competition to fuel the the growth of those two areas and see which one kind of wins out. As time went on, I think we realized that, hey, it actually from a product standpoint was not too distracting to do more than two verticals. And in fact, we eventually landed on five verticals early on that we were able to build a horizontal product for and not have too much product roadmap distraction.

And uh yeah, it ended up being a good thing because now we're more of a horizontal platform than a single vertical solution, which has been a really good thing for Podium. And then one other thing I'm really curious about is like what does this focus actually look like in practice? And I'm thinking both from an outbound and inbound perspective. From an outbound perspective, it means really targeting only this geography or those those verticals. But I'm curious for an inbound perspective, like does this level of focus truly mean don't take the company that comes in and says here's, you know, $2,000 a month, or does it just mean don't proactively target that person? >> Yeah, I would say that that >> and maybe it's changed. I'm guessing it's changed over time because in in the early days, a dollar is a dollar.

I I would guess >> definitely changed over time. Like in the early days, we would still take all those inbound leads and try to sell them. Now, we've actually made very distinct teams around that. And we have very distinct product mixes that we sell to people outside of our core ICP. So, if an inbound lead comes in, they have to have a certain product mix for us to even sell them.

And if they're not willing to buy that entire product mix, we just say, "Thank you, but you're not a good fit for us right now." Because that churn profile we know without that product mix is just way too high. I think one thing I would love to share with any of your revenue leaders, you know, I think generally we look at ourselves as salespeople and churn lives in the side of customer success, but in my 10 years at podium, what I've realized is the only thing that can truly impact churn in a in a meaningful way is who we sell in the first place. And that took me a long time as a sales leader to get to. You know, I was I was probably a little bit immature in the way I thought about churn. And you know, I thought, well, it's my job to sell it.

It's your job to take care of it. And obviously if you're a CRO, you own all of it. But uh what I've learned over time is just how critical what we sell on the front end is and how we sell them and what products we sell them to then the long-term success of that customer from a churn perspective. So yeah, early on we just wouldn't proactively reach out to those folks. We also spent every dollar in marketing on just the verticals that we felt were a good fit.

We didn't spend any dollars on anything else. if they did inbound, we would sell to them. And then as we got into acceleration phase where we wanted to really grow, it's interesting those verticals started to become a little bit broader. So we went from like dentists to like healthcare, which you know that's a pretty big leap to go from and next thing you know we were selling to dental offices and orthodontics offices and um aiology clinics and we started getting into like urgent care. And then on the automotive side, we went from like automotive dealers to used car dealers to powers sports.

And so, you know, as we were in acceleration mode and we were trying to generate as much growth and revenue as possible, I think we allowed ourselves to stretch that definition a little too much. Now, it paid off because we were hitting big revenue numbers, but at a certain level of revenue, the churn caught up to us eventually and we had to really tighten it up. So now if you look at podium's ICP, we are very very very specific in three subverticals. Like it's not even like home services. It's like a specific industry within home services and a specific customer within home services.

So we kind of went from everywhere to specific to broad and then as we've gotten back >> back and um you know it's a journey that you probably all have to go through. I think if I had the chance to do it again, I would not have allowed ourselves to get so broad in that acceleration phase as we were trying to hit revenue targets every year. I think we could have done it without having to make excuses or sacrifices on the churn profile. So, I actually have this conversation all the time with our customers when we're onboarding them and working with them because we're always talking about choose your ICP. We consistently see across our customer base if you have a vertical like vertical focus consistent and and not just at a product and strategy level but specifically down to a rep level consistently those teams outperform teams where either it's very general or even the reps just can sell across any vertical.

I guess if you had to summarize it like what would you tell the let's say it's a founder of like a 5 million AR company who's really excited about going after a lot of verticals and sort of has this mindset of well a good sales rep should be able to sell anything and they should own a geography but not necessarily a specific vertical. >> Yeah. I've got a couple of thoughts on that. So first off I worked with an amazing leader on my side. He always used this line that I love.

He said good fences build good neighbors. And I never heard that before until he he shared that. >> I like that. >> That makes a ton of sense. And so, first off, I think one of the things you're trying to do as you're scaling is you're trying to build a culture within your sales team of everyone winning and working together.

And I think one of the areas that I found when I first got to podium, it was kind of the wild west, right? Like every lead, you know, it was if it came in, there weren't a lot of rules around who owned what or what funneled to who. And and I think what I've seen in those worlds where your definition of like the rep's territory or the customer profile is too broad, it creates a lot of wasted time both in terms of like low close rates and reps wanting to like say, "Well, that was my lead or my deal or my this or my that." And it just creates, I think, a pretty negative culture. So, one of the things I would tell a young founder is the more you can dial in your market, your definition of your ICP and the territory the reps go after, the better culture that creates because again, good fences build good neighbors. So, a lead comes in, it's very clear who owns it, who doesn't, right? And then you can start to monitor the efficiency of that particular rep in a funnel that really tells you if they're good or not. So I think the first thing I would say is the more defined you get, the better you can monitor that particular funnel of either that industry, that product or even that sales rep.

The less that's defined, there's a lot more asterisk within your funnel. Well, oh, their close ratio is this because they have this territory or they have they got this lead or whatever. The more equal and defined you make that, the more you can assess based on just straight performance rather than having a lot of variables in there. The second thing I would say is I use a lot of sports analogies, but the one that I think of is like muscle memory, right? So, you hear this a lot in sports, which is you go up to a free throw, you don't want to have to be thinking about how you're going to shoot that free throw. It should you you should have shot so many times that it's just muscle memory, right? Your body just knows exactly what how that feels to make a free throw.

And I think the same thing for sales reps. The more muscle memory you can create for them when it comes to taking a demo, the better. So, it's not about like great sales reps should be able to do X or Y. Yes, that's totally true. But you get more productivity out of them if it's just everything is done by muscle memory.

So, as silly as it sounds, I don't want my reps to have to think about, oh, this is a car dealership. I need to make sure I say lot versus office and I need to say customer instead of patient or I have to know that they're on, you know, automotive software versus an a dental software, right? And what CRM they use versus not. Like the more of that that can become muscle memory that takes away the thinking, it just allows them to focus on the customer, right? It allows them to focus on listening and identifying pain and trying to find where our product provides solutions to that pain. The less they have to think about all that other stuff, the more they can listen and focus on the customer. So that's what I would tell a young founder is like, hey, you're just trying to create muscle memory and the best performing funnel possible.

And the more you can take out some of that thinking, the better. >> Carrying it forward to phase two, what do you think you guys like really got right kind of post 20 million? You guys have very dialed in verticals and what sort of enabled you guys to scale as fast as you guys did in in phase 2. >> Yeah, I think there's a couple of things that I would attribute to that is first off like we were really good at defining what a good day, good month, good quarter look like. And one of the things that I've always felt strongly on is I don't ever want to run a quarterly sales motion. I think if you can't fit success into the into a month, then you should try to manufacture and re-engineer it so that everything is monthly performance.

So, you know, podium, we've always stayed true to this idea of like we run on a monthly quarter or a monthly quota. Um, which means that like every day matters. You have to know exactly how you're performing on the first day of the month, the middle of the month, and the end of the month. And I mean it's exhausting sometimes. It's like running like 1200 yards.

>> Yeah. You get to the end of the month and then you it's like back to the beginning. >> You've got about 6 hours to enjoy it and then you've got to get right back at it cuz that quota is coming fast. But I would say like that's one thing that we've done really well in terms of acceleration is staying true. And there was moments where we tried to move to quarterly and I just never felt comfortable with a world where man if we get off on the wrong foot like there's not any scenario we could catch up fast enough to make up for the for the quarter and so we always have run monthly.

So I and then we we are really good at breaking that down into like weeks and days. So I had a mantra early on at podium which was 321 and that was a thing that we defined for everyone which is what a great day looked like which is three appointments scheduled two demos held and a chance to close one deal every day and and we made that the mantra and all of the input metrics funneled down from there. So in order to get three appointments, you had to have x number of calls and you had to put in x number of effort. And so I think that was something we did really good is once we had that validation is then creating the system of what does it look like on a daily, weekly, monthly basis for us to be able to perform. And then as we added people in, you know, and we started to grow the team, that culture permeated throughout everything.

And so if we added somebody in who wasn't able to keep up with that motion, it was very clear. And of course, we didn't allow them to stay on the team if they couldn't live up to that. So, I think that was a big part of it. The second thing though is what we found is that about 25ish million, the leaders who we believed in early on, some of them were able to take that jump and some were not. The sales reps we had early on, some were able to take that jump, some were not.

And when I say jump, I mean things like increased quotas, more complex products, potentially shrinking territories because we were adding more sales reps and and and building the team. And just culturally and and kind of attitude- wise, right? Like some people didn't want to see us grow. They didn't want to see us become a big company. We had to change things like we had to increase quotas. We had to take away some of our discounting tools.

We had to increase our price point on some of the products and the complexity of the products. And what we found is it was a constant evaluation of who is taking the leap with us and who is going on this journey with us and who isn't. And if they weren't, it wasn't that we fired them. It was just like let's find what they need to do to change or how do we put them in a role or a position where they they can get there, right? And so, you know, we had a lot of leadership early on and I think out of our seven leaders, only one of them eventually kept growing within podium and became a VP for us. We went on a journey to go hire really great outside talent who had seen that leap from 25 to 50 to 100.

We brought in folks who were able to help us really build that and then those individuals were able to take our current team and develop them so that they could be ready to then internally promote. So that was really awesome to see is some of them we just said, "Hey, you're doing amazing, but we we need a level of experience and performance that you're not quite ready for, but we're going to bring somebody in who we believe can teach you to do that and then you can get there." And we saw a lot of those folks eventually get there with us, which was which was really exciting. I would say those are the two biggest things is like that constant drum beat of monthly quotas to keep that acceleration and performance and then we had to just constantly evaluate everybody are they you know are they good enough at 25 million are they still able to do it at 50 million at 75 million and so on and that's hard right >> I'm curious so on the flip side it sounds like during this phase you guys also to just grow faster started to broaden your definition of your ICP I'd be curious to what sort of led to that decision and then I guess more importantly like how fast did you start to see the downsides and then actually course correct? >> Yeah. So so one of the reasons this happened is we went from 15 sales reps in 2017ish to almost 100 or so by the end of like 2019 2020. So to do that you know you're >> lead's got to come from somewhere.

>> A lead's got to come from somewhere. You got to go to some trade shows. You got to find the right whatever. And and so as we tried to hit these new revenue goals, we we also then tried to stretch like what was defined as like our ICP. And so like uh the good example I would share is, you know, we were really big in the retail space.

We were selling to furniture stores, appliance stores, mattress stores, jewelry stores. But as we added reps in and our lead volume started to slow down in those areas, well not slow down, just we started to spread those leads out among more reps, we found that, oh gosh, we need to find more leads to get our reps to the number and to hit quota. And so next thing we know, we started to look at like music stores, bike stores, um, uh, pool and spa stores, right? And so we really started to stretch that definition of like a retail operation or high consideration retail or competitive retail. I don't think it was like the wrong move of like they were the they were necessarily bad businesses, but that also started to put a huge strain on our product and CS team, right? So now you think of like specialization and now you're going from well we have to have product partnership CS and onboarding not only for jewelry stores and furniture stores, but now bike shops and pool and hot tub owners, right? And you're like it just started to really strain the entire business as we stretch that ICP. I look back and you know probably shame on me for not just holding that line better and also like pushing the team to get more efficiency out of out of those verticals and industries that we had already dedicated to.

How how did you know it wasn't working? Like what are the signs? because there's obviously some balance in you do as you grow want to find new use cases and unlock new verticals because as you pointed out early on like if you're just building for auto shops like that TAM is only so big and it's still big but it's going to cap out at some point. So I guess how did you know or what are the indicators you you would advise companies to like keep an eye on maybe the leading indicators for when you're getting too far out of that sort of sweet spot of of your core verticals. Yeah, I I think there's there's three things that come to mind. I think number one is again in the effort to accelerate, I don't think we did as good a job of like really assessing like our TAM both total addressable market as well as like our sales addressable market. I mean, you know, if you think about it in like the home services world, like let's just let's just take um HVAC businesses, right? There's like 40 50,000 HVAC businesses in the US.

And I think at one point we had convinced ourselves that we had, you know, that we didn't have enough TAM to support 10 or so sales reps, right? And um and I I think that's that's just something that I look back on now and think man we we should have done like the real operational work to understand what is our >> understanding the actual TAM and how we see this all the time from companies like how far can you get right based on like pretty high confidence estimates of of Y accounts of like a certain size. >> Exactly. And also just pushing the efficiency on that, right? Like I think there was a world where at one point the quotas that we had felt like well that's that's that's really a big quota. Like we're like that that that we can't ask any more of our reps. Well, funny enough like four years later we had double if not two and a halfx those same quotas that at one time we felt were just impossible to go above.

And so I you know I look at that sometimes and think yeah we probably just didn't look at the addressable market and stretch what was possible for each of those books as much as we could have. The other thing I look at is like price point and average, you know, production per rep is another thing. You know, we saw like in certain areas we were doing two or three more production per rep. And I look back on that and I was really reluctant to put more headcount there, right? Cuz I was like, well, I I don't want to make those reps mad or I don't want to like reduce their productivity. But ultimately, we were willing to also then see half if not a third of their production in other verticals and and justify it, right? So I would say like productivity per rep, participation participation rate per rep are data points I wish we had spent a little bit more time on as well.

And then the final one which our CEO was really really good at was just our churn profile. I mean there just was simply businesses where we churned at a higher rate. certain industries that turned higher, but I think we weren't willing to be he always really pushed us and we always like kind of pushed back on the sales side of like well it's a product issue or maybe it's a CS issue because you know I was nervous to give up the TAM and the leads right and the revenue. Ultimately, when we finally made the hard decision to stop selling into those verticals due to churn and put those resources into these other verticals, again, we've seen productivity per rep go up, churn go down, bookings growth continue. And one thing I feel like I've learned in my 10 years at Podium is by and large um whenever whenever I'm pushed on something, my first reaction is to go negative.

But it's always worked out. It's we've always figured out a solution >> to to get past it. And so now is I feel over the last couple years I've been much much better at like okay this sounds hard. Not super excited about that but we can do this. And our reps are resilient and we'll and we'll get through it.

So >> what's in practice like in theory makes sense. We need to go derive more efficiency from reps. What does that actually look like tactically? Because I'm sure in practice it's a lot harder to go say we're going to cut our TAM and instead give reps a smaller territory and squeeze out like what does it look like to actually squeeze more out of Yeah. like a smaller territory. >> Yeah.

We're I mean we're going through that right now in in our planning process. The the thing I always look at is in any funnel so as you look at leads coming in appointment set hold rate you know conversion rate of those appointments and opportunities and then eventually opportunities to close one. what's the average price point on those deals. We look at two things. So, first off, I look at what I believe industry standards should be in order for us to justify resources in this particular vertical, right? So, I think number one, you look at your funnel and say, "Hey, is there anywhere in this funnel where we're just not meeting industry standards?" Like, so a good example of that is like a close ratio below 30%.

Right? If you can't close 30% or better, I think you got to look at that funnel and say, "Okay, is this a product market fit issue? Is this a hiring issue? Have we just not hired great sales reps?" Right? like industry standard should say 30%. So I think the first thing I look at is every part of the funnel and say are we meeting the industry standard? Okay. >> Then if I'm going to make a significant change I then try to look at like okay what is one to two areas where I believe we can be not just industry standard but gold standard in these particular areas. And what would it take for us to get to that gold standard? So, we're going through a process right now with our SDR team where we've been hitting a certain number of held demos per SDR every single month, which has been really really good for us. We've hit every booking goal we've had and and but I would say we've been allowing ourselves to be industry standard in the held demos, not the gold standard.

>> And when we look at like, okay, what would it take to get to the gold standard? It's a little more effort, a little more coaching. It's not like something miraculous has to change, right? And I think that's what that's what I look for is like usually in any sort of funnel improvement, I say I can only take on one miracle at a time. Okay? So if we're coming up with something that's like we have to go from X to Y and it seems like almost a miraculous leap, I'm willing to take that on one at a time, not two of those at a time. But in this particular case, it there wasn't like anything that would say we had to really miraculously change what we were doing in order to get there. And it was just a matter of better focus, better coaching, better hiring, you know, a little bit more effort to go from what was the industry standard to the gold standard.

I'm very excited to say like this month we've hit the gold standard for the first time. >> Let's go. It's led to a lot more bookings and efficiency and productivity. >> So I think that's what I look at is I look at that funnel and say, is there anywhere where we're not industry standard? We got to get there. Number two, if we look at that funnel and say, "Hey, where is one area that we feel like if we could go from industry standard to gold standard, it would have a massive impact and then assess what would it take to get to that gold standard?" And as long as you're not dealing with just a miraculous type improvement that has to happen, you go and attack that one thing.

And attacking that one thing has has paid off for podium. I'm curious looking ahead as you guys enter phase three, what do you think is going to be that next like miracle or what do you think you're going to have to really nail to as you guys scale from where you are today to even more revenue? >> Yeah, the biggest thing that I've been focusing on is our systems and our scalability. And like if I build something and I go and hire an outside hire, can that outside hire with a little bit of effort and a little bit of commitment on their end be successful in that system? Okay. Hey, and I think there was a time at podium where we could not unequivocally say that where a lot of things if you got hired in from the outside to come to podium, you were kind of on your own to sort of figure it out. And those that had a lot of initiative and creativity figured it out and those who didn't basically didn't survive.

And so one of the things I've been really focused on over the last couple years with my leaders is how do we build playbooks, definitions, and systems that anywhere we go, if we hire someone from the outside and they have a a base level of commitment and willingness, they can be successful in our system. And one of the things I found is that we just didn't define things well enough, right? And so that playbook and that definition was critical. And I'll just give you like a really good example, which was, you know, back in the day we would say, "Hey, go make 50 calls a day. We want every SDR making 50 calls and that should lead to two appointments, right? And so we had this whole thing of tracking calls and appointments. Well, how you rightly define a call, how I define a call might be very different, right? I might consider a call like someone I call, talk to, get on the phone and and actually speak with.

You might consider a call just simply dialing a phone number and getting an office person to pick up. And and what we found is that we would we would throw out these funnels of like go make 50 calls, get two appointments, but the definition of those things vary drastically between one rep to the other and you start to hire 100, 200, 300 reps. Well, now you have a lot of definitions of calls uh across the team, right? And what actually is a call? And so what we've been doing over the last year is looking at every single thing that matters and trying to truly define it. >> What is a call? Well, now a call for us is a call to a lead that we've prescribed that fits the customer profile that we've determined. You make that call, you're on the phone with at least with them for at least 45 to 60 seconds and it's a unique business versus someone you've already called earlier.

And every SDR has to make a certain number of those defined calls every day. So that is a small example of the systems and the tooling and the playbooks we've had to build over the last couple of years to to be able to support two three 400 sales reps versus when we were at 100 people that was easy to define because >> I could same office. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. You're all right there.

I could go yell at you if you didn't do it right. And now we've got a global team across work from home, work in office, different different countries. And so we've had to really define every single piece of that. And it's been painful, but it's also added to a ton of efficiency and productivity, and it's actually made the sales rep's lives better because now they know exactly what we want. So, that's that's the big area of focus.

>> Okay, in the last uh last 60 seconds, we're going to do super rapid fire questions. First, yeah, what what's your favorite way to celebrate a closed one deal or what's it what's the podium way of celebrating a deal? >> Gosh. Uh probably my favorite way is when we've got a really active Slack channel that we've worked with Salesforce to pull deals in. And so every time something closes, it hits the channel that shows all of the wins from that particular deal, the product sold, the price point, all of that. And then we have a really, really fun gift game for like deals that makes a lot of energy.

And then my personal thing is I just love to get up out of my seat, walk over and, you know, fist bump that rep, especially if I know they've been fighting for that one for a long time. So I still love the old school method of just like the good old >> go over to their desk. But yeah, we're we have a very active and fun gift celebration. >> Awesome. In in 5 years, do you think cold calling will still exist? >> 100%.

You'll never convince me that cold calling doesn't exist. Whenever I see that online cold calling's dead, I say, "Well, again, it's probably because you haven't defined well what a cold call is and who you're trying to call and why you're calling them and what you're saying to them when you call them." Now, I don't know what AI is going to do in that world as far as like what AI outbounding can do, but yeah, you'll cold calling still works really, really well for us here at podiums. >> What's something you see a lot of go to market leaders think or or follow? That's advice that you would actually advise against. >> Yeah, I mean I I think for me the one that I always go back to is along this line of cold calling, just the harder you work, the lucky you get, right? Like I just really believe that um we're still in a world where selling starts when you get your first no. And and and you know, the harder you work to help customers see the value of what you're bringing to the table, the the pain that we can relieve, and then also the harder you work to get their attention.

I I I understand that there's a lot of education buyers can do now, but there's a lot of people who go throughout their day not knowing that they need your software and it's our job to help them become aware of that and to also share that with them and and then find the pain that we can solve. So I see a lot of like work smarter not harder and I obviously would love to do that too but um but I but I think there's just no substitute for actively building pipeline. The harder you work the lucky you get. That that's probably the thing I would put out there. >> Awesome.

Well, really enjoyed this conversation. Thanks for joining today. Thank you for the time and again big fans of Orbital. Thanks for all you're doing to help us get more successful. So we appreciate it.

[Music].


---

*Fetched: 2026-01-06T21:03:01.168Z*
*Source: supadata*