# Video VlpV1YFUjmo

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VlpV1YFUjmo

---

## Transcript

Hello everyone. Um I'm George and we are 10 seconds in the uh workshop we prepared for uh all of you today. Um Zach is um just checking that everything is uh you know running smoothly uh while I'm making the introductions. Um I have or like we have uh we are a group of four uh here today. Zach is going to coordinate uh the conversation and uh we have Milita uh who's our content lead and uh we also have Adrian who's our SEO lead.

Zach uh hi guys. Uh I don't know if you want to say hi but uh yeah. So um Zach when you like signal me that like everything is uh fine I can you know pass it over to you so that uh like we can uh you can moderate and uh we can we can begin the conversation. >> Yeah seems like that we are live not on the right LinkedIn let's say post but still the good thing is that we are live. So yeah, I mean uh let's see one moment.

Okay, we're good on YouTube. So yeah the main topic for today is to discuss a few things and uh with minus team and to discuss about let's say how the year was a few things and a few trends that we saw and u let's say predictions for the upcoming year and what we expect moving forward from the content marketing industry. So uh it will be like a fireside chat uh with a few questions not something let's say uh so much structured uh but mainly our perspectives on a few things and uh so the first question is actually uh what are the changes that you saw uh on content marketing from 2024 uh and this year uh and anyone can uh answer this question. I mean, Adrian can take the lead or Melissa, anyone. I mean, anything that you saw and stood out to you guys.

>> Uh, sure. I have one. Um, one thing that I noticed is that we've seen a rise in interest in original content. We've had clients approach us with sentences sort of like, uh, customers keep asking us about these differences in our features or product. Can we write a post about that? Or customers want to know the process of working with us end to end.

Let's write a guide about that. So it's not original content only in the sense of data studies and surveys but also in sales enablement content and um well I am a big fan of that and I think this sort of like personalization being more transparent in content and companies that lead with like behind the scenes insights and real people real stories. I think we're going to see more of that in 2026 as we did in 2025 compared to before. >> Adrian, what about you? >> Yeah, from my perspective, from an SEO perspective, 2025 was uh pretty intense, I should say. I mean, it started with uh with the saying that SEO is dead, and now by the end of the of the year, it uh throws again from its own ashes like the phoenix.

So yeah, basically this uh this was the biggest the AI AI was the biggest uh trend, the biggest thing that happened that re revolutionized everything. But at the same time, the more things changed, the more they seem to have stayed the same. I mean even though we have AI now, I mean the fundamentals of SEO pretty much remain the same and apply to answer engine optimization as well. Like the pages still need to serve intent, not just uh keywords. They need to answer questions clearly and directly.

There's need to be topicality, authority. They need to be easy easy to crawl stuff like that. Everything that applies to SEO seems to apply to a search as well. So yeah, basically the as much as thing things have changed from this uh point of view, they kind of stay the same. Yeah, that's that's my overall perspective here.

What I would say is that uh the biggest change I guess I've seen is and and I agree uh with what Melissa and Adrian uh said, but to me the biggest change between 2024 and 2025 was mainly the sentiment towards SEO. And this happened by the way towards the end of the year, the second half rather of 2025. And this was basically the sentiment towards SEO and AO. The interesting thing is that in this uh survey that um growth unhinged Kyle Poya ran, they asked I think 196 GTM leaders and not sure exactly what the roles were uh the job titles but and they shared that one of their top priorities in fact the top priority the top channel for next year is AO and interestingly SEO was somewhere in position I don't know like I think below 10 but I I don't want to give an an exact number because I I don't remember >> seven >> but yeah but the we can look it up but the difference was was significant and it's I think it's one of these things that shows how um how little people know about the the the association like the the connection or the relationship rather between SEO and AEO, right? Because as Adrian said, some of the things that like feed SEO basically Google search um these are the same things that feed AO, right? Uh or whatever the term you you like to use uh maybe, right? And so the sentiment has started to shift. we have, you know, some way to go until people get and when I say by people I mean people who make like purchasing decisions and you know actually uh yeah so it's as as you can see it's funny but like AO is first an SEO sits at position I don't know I can see the positions there but like you get the point right it's I think it's below even 10 right which is crazy.

Uh, and it speaks for the fact that that SEO, which is, you know, a factor at this point, got a very bad rep in the past couple of years and the fact that we haven't done a good enough job communicating um the relationship between the two. uh besides you know like or beyond the the kind of the need to serve our own interests meaning not communicate the relationship just to sell you know SEO services or whatnot but to to communicate it because you know this is what this is right um anyway uh that's the biggest uh shift uh there have like other things too, like you know, uh I shared a video yesterday with Militza of a guy I I discovered and it was just hilarious. It's one of the best things I've seen. In fact, I think it was the best thing I've ever seen on on LinkedIn all these nine years I've been on the platform. And it was so funny.

I think these videos were kind of um you know, kind of picked up uh Steam this year. I'm not sure if that's a trend uh that's here to stay. I don't say that it's a fud either, but uh we we've seen brands get more creative, let's say. But I think that, you know, it's it's the law of city clickthroughs all over again. Something is kind of effective uh until everyone does it.

And you know, like it it stops uh being as effective. Having said that, the bar for creating such videos is higher than just creating a blog post. So I'm not trying to draw any parallels. But anyway, we've seen things like that. We've also think seen as Mirita mentioned like things like original content and whatnot.

But for me, the the biggest change is that. And I think that this will um this this will kind of continue um or spill over uh to 2026 and maybe beyond. hopefully beyond because this means that like the this new channel, this emerging channel of AI search is uh is here to stay and it will become a a great channel that will not kind of replace Google but expand the pie and create new opportunities for companies to get found and uh you know uh get visible and like grow and whatnot. Yeah. And I mean that leads me to the next topic which is actually okay let's say that we are all convinced that uh things are uh changing and uh content is sexy again that uh we're shifting uh from let's say SEO to AEO but the main question that arises here is uh what does that mean for B2B SAS or companies in general and uh how should they let's say think about this new channel or even approach it because I mean uh people still seem like uh being confused and don't uh understand this quite well.

So what would you say about let's say navigating through this change? >> Adrian, >> so Adrian can go first, Melissa can go next and then you can let me you know to to close this I guess. Uh yeah. >> Yeah. I mean um for brands to looking forward to to the new reality of search of AI search and everything that uh that's happening now. I mean they need to I think understand what metrics are important to to look at how different uh trends or different ways of doing things are not obsolete but are should be tackled differently.

So for example, let's say um top of funnel content for example, it's now with a search it's measured it should be measured differently because traditionally top of funnel likeformational uh pieces, definitions and so forth tended to drive traffic to sites and even earn back links. But now with AI search, I mean, people tend to get most of that information directly from AI overviews. So people no longer drive traffic to sites as much. So but that this doesn't mean that uh top offunnel content is dead or shouldn't be done anymore. It just means that to track it, to look at it, to see what it does is most mostly in terms of I believe a citations.

That's where you you see the effect of uh of top offunnel content. So people no longer actually click and get to your site but they get uh your website is being cited in AI overviews and such whenever people are because they're still researching. I mean in general people use AI they don't use it for the entire journey they just do the initial research. most of most of the people just use it for quick research and then they they move on to to different channels. So this is one example of uh of how uh how things are changing.

I in other other metrics I mean sure of search in terms of SEO still matters organic visibility conversions in terms of uh AEO metrics brand visibility is uh is something to look at citations rates as I've mentioned here share of voice the sentiment positive or negative so yeah it's basically a different way of looking at things it's what I I what I would say here. >> Um yeah, I would I would uh tack on what to what Adrian said about um AI search is a new channel but it is still another channel just like social media, just like SEO used to be or maybe is still. [laughter] Um and I think that uh especially B2B companies or B2B SAS should consider it as another touch point for customers right because as Adrian said they are not there for the entire journey they won't be like okay what is the best product for X and then okay tell me more about this company what is the pricing of the company they won't finish their entire journey in AI search um they will likely go elsewhere to Google to the website directly and continue and make their decision based on that. Um the decision-m process still very much involves humans. So I think you know the this is just another touch point to add and it is an important one.

I think it'll probably be even more important in the following years. uh should not be ignored but it should not overpower the other channels that where you know customers can find a product or a company they're interested in. >> Yeah, I'll also like to add now to what Melissa said. Um I mean I think that LLM from what I've seen they tend to reward freshness. I mean they tend to to reward articles and content that uh breaks from the fold.

There's a lot of repetition and now that a lot of content is AI generated more and more content is AI generated everything that stands out will uh will help will help get uh uh pieces and content get cited. So for example, SAS companies can uh use their own internal data like uh or subject matter experts from within their own company or customer calls or whatever they have at the their disposal they use internally they can use in their content to stand out which is another way of uh breaking from uh from the competition. as another example of what they can do. >> Can I uh just share a couple of thoughts here uh Zach? So what I would say is that um there is an obvious overlap between SEO and AEO. However, there are a few things and and by the way, we have to let me caveat that by saying let let me caveat this whole thing by or preface it really by saying that AI search um and AEO is still in its very early like steps, right? It's in its infancy and so it's kind of like the wild west uh at the moment.

Meaning that as Kevin Dig said in his uh predictions for 2026, there might be a you know quality update event especially from Chad CPT in 2026 which is you know like entirely justified if you ask me. things will change, right? But at the moment with like what we know and what we know is too little because we are trying to discover and understand these systems and like how this new emerging channel uh works the mechanics of it is that there is an obvious overlap. However, there is also if the overlap is let's say 90%, there is a 10% that's non-over overlapping that makes a very big difference though, right? However, you know, I said this post today, post SL rant, which Melissa, you know, she she loves my rants, but um I served this post on on LinkedIn and I basically described the reality, which is that, you know, a couple of years ago when this whole SEO dead narrative started like picking up steam, um many companies cancelled their uh content programs point blank And well guess what even with the freshness kind of criteria which Adrian mentioned which according to a report by uh Arabs is you know like there is a high correlation there. Um even with that the posts that um and by the way the post I said was you know from a minus client whom I hope you know will be an active client again uh in in the in the near future but you cancel the program and you have this this piece of content these pages and you see that these same pages they that get you visibility or that got you visibility in Google search they get you visibility in AI search as well right and that's you know two years later right and so there is an obvious overlap but there is also as I said like a 10% that makes all the difference for example just the other day I was you know looking at at the AI search you know like insights or analytics whatever you term you you you prefer and I saw that it picks up pieces that have um I want to say commercial intent but this is not really accurate. For example, it picks up buyers guides for you know like this specific software category or it picks up um kind of jobs to be done type of pieces uh on how to do this thing using like our product, right? And or this job rather.

And so this shows me that many of the things that we think we know, for example, you know, we start with a keyword or we try to kind of convert this keyword into a prompt and so on and so forth. These things may be um kind of the foundations uh and can help you kind of form a a nice uh foundation for your AO strategy, but they may not be enough in this new world, right? And as I said, um, we expect some kind of headwinds and volatility ahead, but at the same time and like most likely, you know, quality update events and whatnot, but at the same time, we really need to to to keep digging to understand like what are these differences that we are not aware of and that, you know, like they they they are they emerge as as we speak. um that we need to factor in when forming when building a an AEO strategy. I don't know if anyone has anything to add but like that's how I see it in a in a nutshell. >> Oh, I add a small thing here like for example instead of >> focusing just on intent which is u something that was traditionally done.

We also need to focus now on the persona on who the piece the content is aimed at. Because as most people know already, whenever you search something in AI search, the results differ based on who you are, based on the person doing the search, based on your history, even the way you phrase things. So knowing your target audience, knowing your their pain points is very important. knowing their workflows and knowing how to address those pain points and workflows with prompts is very is very important going forward. Yeah.

And also I just wanted to apologize because I've seen some messages on LinkedIn about the live and it seems like it didn't went live on the original event page and it started another one. So we had a few messages uh so release Cindy um can uh but the event will be and the video will be uh recorded and it will stay published on YouTube so you can watch it anytime but you can also leave any I don't know uh questions or comments on YouTube. I I'm seeing I have the window open or also to the new LinkedIn event. So yeah that that's the first part and the second part is uh regarding what uh George said. Uh to be honest uh the interesting part from my perspective is uh that it was a discussion back then regarding if a brand should mention uh competitors or if they should create let's say bottom of the funnel content regarding mentioning their own brand and uh so on.

And some brands, especially established brands, didn't want, let's say, to mention their competitors because they felt like they are giving him them credit or I don't know uh value. But it seems like uh it's more important than ever nowadays to own this perspective uh how your brand will be presenting it out there because as you can see all these things are actually influence uh LLMs and if people are searching for solutions alternatives or software or I don't know any any uh thing that they they are interested in it seems to like uh these platforms and train are trained from uh sources is discussing for the product, the use cases, the team, the budget and everything. So if you don't own the narrative for your brand, someone else is doing it and in most cases it won't be for your good. So that's something important there. And yeah all the all all these things also are leading us into a new era because when AI started we all uh were thinking that uh we didn't know what to expect moving forward but it seems now that since the sand has settled and we have also started working on a few use cases workflows and many other internal tools uh all these things are starting to work quite well uh on our dayto today and I also wanted to ask you about let's say AI and use cases that uh you've seen doing let's say your day-to-day better a few internal tools George you can mention many of them that you're working on uh but yeah I wanted to understand how do you see AI let's say fits into uh content marketing and SEO moving forward >> sure Melissa if you don't mind I can go first here um so first of all back to your point uh I wanted to about like constructing and kind of uh influencing the narrative.

I just want to give a quick quick example here which is I was trying to understand why you know LLMs have the perception for like a brand I've been following for a while that it's you know like mostly open source and like this open source would come up uh consistently and then excuse me I checked um with a tool I I I built the you know whether the the the website has a an LLM.txt file uh and a robots txt file and whether in the robots txt file they are blocking any uh LLMs they weren't but the but in the LLM's uh txt file they were basically uh presenting themselves as an opensource API for you know the specific use case that they want to like be kind of associated with and whatnot right I'm not saying that this is the only point that uh of reference that like LLMs were using, but you really have to think how your brand is being portrayed and being, you know, presented out there uh from all these different kind of touch points uh and points of reference that these LLMs uh use, right? And something as simple as a page on your website or a file on your website may indeed have influenced over the perception and the narrative. Okay. So that's that's that. Now regarding AI, let me just describe you you know the past couple of days. Um so I'm I'm I'm sending a video to a prospect and I'm using two uh internal tools.

one of them brand setup assistant which basically do does research for you uh using you know different APIs um for the prospect and you know gives you like the topics gives you their competitors gives you an overview of the company and so on and so forth. So I take that which is a tool we built right internally right. I take that I feed the topics and some additional context into a keyword to prompt generator that we built and then I get the prompts. Okay. Okay.

I get the prompts and then now Zach you know and like you you folks know that we are building our own uh AI search tracking tool. Then you take these prompts and you feed them into your AI search tracking tool, right? uh and then you can create a video you know and reach out to prospects basically telling them like what they need to uh to be aware of regarding their AI search tracking like search visibility and whatnot. This is one use case. Another one is we are working I'm working on a study right now on the AI search uh tracking industry right like I want to understand this industry how how much money has been raised and so on and so forth. Melissa, you don't know that.

Uh Adrian, I don't think I think you don't not know that either. But I'm working on this uh report, right? Uh well, guess what? I'm using as kind of a second layer of research along alongside a human researcher, an AI agent, right? I'm using clay for this clay agent. Um and other one uh is I'm working on content, right? And I searched yesterday with you folks a couple of graphics I generated with nano banana right just these are like three four use cases right of of AI so I don't know like I I don't want to give the like the which sounds detrimental at this point but I'm I'm using the AI all day like I'm I'm in my chatbot and like you know that's all I do like that's all I care about obviously not but I mean if you're not using it you are just missing out. It's just a great tool and it allows you to do things and go places where like you just couldn't go, right? And so yeah, that these are these are my use cases just just a few just a handful of those from this, you know, past couple of days, right? I would like to hear Melissa and Adrian and their perspective. >> Um and thank you for sharing that very enthusiastically.

Um I want to say that um in terms of using AI tools, it really helped us internally uh streamline our processes and make research faster and better. We are using um how do you call LLM notebooks or something like that to create sort of internal knowledge bases on client information, product information positioning editorial guidelines that are available super fast. uh no longer looking through many different documents, folders, asking people is this correct, is this correct, is this, does this feature exist, does this does that, etc. So, it really helped us speed up the research part of writing and content creation. And um I also wanted to say it's now like a topic before this topic but on the subject of owning your own brand narrative transparency really is key and we are not seeing only the value of bottomfunnel content like mentioning competitors comparing yourself to compare your product to competitor products etc.

But also being very open about when your product is might might not be the right fit, for whom it might not work, why it might not work, why it's not the best for a specific persona or something. So creating content on that level is also incredibly helpful, not only for AI search, but the human element of decision making as well. Um, I don't think I have anything to add on on the AI internal tools subject. Adrian, >> yeah, I mean before I get into that, it's not something long. I mean, George kind of covered a lot of the tools of also using on a day-to-day basis.

But on what you said, Melissa, regarding transparency, I completely agree. I mean having um a brand position that shows exactly where um how the tool helps the their uh their audience, how it's used and especially how not how uh it cannot help in what areas it's not performing well stuff like that. it's really important to help build uh trust and showcase his experience, expertise at the end of the day. So this this is a framework that's really really important going forward. As for the tools or the AI tools like what I'm also using internally aside from what George has already mentioned is in terms of um of uh creating structures creating the structure for for my day-to-day uh work is like creating blog post and uh article structures.

We're taking in information from uh top competing pages from uh uh keywords, main keywords, from uh SERs, what people are also searching, bringing it all together and automating a process that highlights what uh how a page should look like, the general outline of a page. So it really helps us from this point of view. That's great. And yeah, I wanted to show a few tools created by George, but I won't do it. Uh I mean, we will share a few of them moving forward.

Uh >> actually, we we already have like I I shared the >> uh I shared the keyword to prompt generator on uh um I think both on my LinkedIn and uh growth growth.com just yesterday. I search it and it's free to use by [snorts] the way. Already I think around 100 people already used it. So yeah, just don't burn all my lovable credits. Uh [snorts] you can you can just go like to uh growthways.com and uh check it out, right? And we will be launching more of these tools.

Um many more of these tools like you should expect many tools uh in the in the coming months. Yeah, to be honest, I'm quite happy about uh the innovation side of things. I mean, this is something that I think it will be uh really useful moving forward uh to the operational side, growth and everything. I mean, this is in a good direction and also uh we're building things that uh we can let's say help our clients be more uh successful. So, this is really important to us.

And yeah, the last thing is uh predictions. Uh I mean the holy grail and the most important let's say thing of this discussion and yeah to be honest uh I will share a few things but uh I will be the last one most likely to also wrap things up. So George you can start because you're good with predictions and doing all these let's say uh narratives. So, I'm interested in hearing your thoughts. >> I'm not sure if I'm good with predictions.

Uh, but um I think predictions are good for um you know, exercising um thinking basically more than anything else. Uh it's not just to to say like in in retrospect or in like hindsight I was right and I knew it and whatnot. Uh so, uh that's that. Plus the the reality of it is that like no one knows and uh at least I you know I don't have a crystal ball uh yet know one day maybe I will have one but so yeah that as a caveat right so I said my predictions for 2026 most of them were not kind of related to uh or as much related to uh to this you know like for the context of what we are discussing one of them was that uh AO will kind of be established as a separate channel which we kind of see right because from the report you search earlier uh from this survey of 196 GTM leaders uh by uh Kyle Po like you can see that people consider of course it's kind of biased because they separate uh AO and uh SEO so you have to kind of you can't say, "Yeah, but I consider them like, you know, there is an obvious overlap here." But anyway, I think that AO will uh will most likely grow in importance. There will be some headwinds.

I think that this will benefit SEO and um content as we discussed at the beginning seems to kind of uh coming back to the surface even though it never really left. Um it was always important, right? Um though how we approach it may change. Meaning that like we may have to forget some of the practices of the past. As I mentioned, you may have to go beyond keywords and search volumes or prompt volumes and whatnot. If you think that I need to create a buyer guide to kind of like establish some like basic understanding of when people should look for or should choose a solution like mine over anything else then you should just go ahead and do it right.

Uh and I think that as we gain understanding of like what drives visibility there we will be sharing more insights. One thing that I think we will see more of is uh the need for uh communicating the impact for this new channel and SEO which which is also kind of changing and transforming into something else. um the need for communicating the impact which basically translates into the need for new metrics for you know measure measuring our success which is something that we've been like discussing with uh Musia's clients. So there will be a discussion around that metrics and like impact and you know um attribution and whatnot. Um then I think that inevitably there have to be some changes around you know Reddit and like UGC content and how this content influences all these LLMs and the then you know the the perception they have over certain brands and whatnot because we've seen how easy it is after all for the game to be rigged right uh and so I would expect certain things to change there.

I'm not exactly sure as to what can change but something has to change because it is very easy to influence um either like an influence can be either good or bad right like you can do positive uh digital PR or you can even do damage right uh at a certain brand um and so that's that and I don't know besides that I would like to I would like to you know pause for a minute and hear what Milit and Adrian have to say. Um, but uh, yeah, that kind of like these are some some thoughts. I didn't have this structured, by the way. Some thoughts here and there uh, and from conversations I've been having uh, over the past few weeks. Yeah.

>> Um, SEO will remain dead. Um, no. But in all seriousness, I think that this is mostly related to to the existence and prevalence um and very low bar to entry for AI generated content that's already here. Um maybe it's a bit of wishful thinking, but um good content or great content will stand out more, bad content will perform worse. uh given everything that we've said about how LLMs value freshness etc.

um I think or again maybe this is visual wishful thinking but I think that brands will lean more into um individuality or maybe original unhinged sort of uh brand voices develop their own personalities. We've se we see some brands do that and we've actually seen the most successful brands do that. Uh maybe there's a correlation there somewhere. So hopefully there will be more of that in 2026. More more um bravery I guess in in content.

>> I I want to I I want to ask a question though. Why do you think is that uh companies don't do more of that more of this like unhinged original kind of uh ideas or creative ideas? I know or at least I have some kind of you know thoughts as to why but uh you know we don't have beep effect on this um kind of live so I will leave my thoughts outside of the conversation for now but I would like to hear from you why do you think is that >> I think it's a number of things I don't think it's one thing right so I think it's a mix of not thinking it's important enough maybe or not daring to go there because it does require stepping out of the comfort zone. It does require stepping out of this very professional, formal sort of presentation that most businesses do, especially in the B2B space. Um, but it also you have to keep in mind the the customer, but I feel like customers now are more attuned to or more responsive to brands that go viral, that they're hyped up, right? So >> yeah and plus we have to think or kind of examine this or answer this question I I just asked prompted um in the context or through the lens of the current environment and landscape which is kind of tough for marketing. marketing is already kind of, you know, uh, on the spot and so you want to play it as safe as you can to keep your job right, both as an agency, as a as an in-house employee, as a you know, whatever.

Um but at the same time you know that like this this this this this path you're in will not lead most likely will not lead to no outsiz returns or the great outcomes that kind of your your board uh or your like seauite expects from you right so it's kind of frustrating because on the one hand I think that marketers realize eyes the need for change but at the same time it's like they are you know kind of handcuffed they they can't do anything because like what do you want me to do like do you want me to pay attention to the freaking KPIs or do you want me to go wild go rogue on LinkedIn or do you want me to get visibility on this you know AO thing that everyone is talking about or do you want me to you know drive pipe for like uh our revenue team So they are pulled in all these different directions and it's I think it's really hard to be a marketer right now. But at the same time I I really believe that you know good marketing and good marketers can really stand out at this environment because the ones who are willing to take the risks and in many cases at the expense of even at the or at the cost of their own job right uh I think these may be the ones who ultimately win right um and the ones we we talk about and cover in uh case studies and and so on and so forth, but that's I don't know. I don't want to like that's that's a small minority rather, you know, the the majority of of companies and marketers out there. >> Yeah. But also what you said about taking risk.

Um, the problem here is also that it's not a risk of like writing one unusual social media post or a series of five blog posts with a different tone of voice or or whatever. It's a it's a matter of continually taking risks for weeks, months until it sort of gives any results that are positive. So, you're right. Not a lot of I imagine not a lot of leadership or seauite people are ready to take that risk. >> Yeah, I guess originality is difficult to track, right? That's the >> Yeah, that's that's also that's also a good point.

Uh that's that's also that ties nicely to what I said about the need for new metrics. I think that's something that marketers will really have. By the way, that's a great topic for uh the next growth phase issue. uh I should you know take uh take a note but it's it's tough it's a tough cell because when you when you have to serve the master of ROI which is kind of the the cloud above most like marketing marketers you know kind of uh heads it's tough to to say yeah but like we need to do this uh campaign on LinkedIn or we need to do this uh like sprint uh on our blog or this topic cluster whatever it may be so that we get visibility on AEO and whatn not because they will they will be like okay but like what's the ROI of this like can you can you make it can you quantify it for me which is a very difficult thing to do in this environment right that's why I think that marketing um the I don't want to say industry because it's not really that but marketing professionals have to do a better job at uh kind of communicating these things and talking about these emerging channels like the the connections between like these like already established though volatile channels such as SEO the need for you know creativity even you know by using other examples side. So yeah, >> Adrian, any thoughts that George Blitza didn't cover? >> I mean, I'm I don't want to well to bank on what uh both Milit and George said.

I mean, yeah, I do believe that if in the future originality will stand out. Transparency and originality will stand out. Especially focused on on personas, content created specifically for by for the people by the people. But uh from an SEO perspective, I think as Milita said, I I mean I don't know exactly if it will die, but it will certainly change as George said in a sense that it will it will support this originality going forward like the technical foundation of it. It won't be maybe as prominent as it is now or was in the past, but more like a foundation, a technical foundation on what to on where brands can take the risk of being more um more of them themselves.

Basically, that's that's what I what I envision going. Do you think that this like you can be yourself and at the same time use AI for content? >> Like do do you know what I mean? >> AI at least at the moment you can use AI to do your research but you can't just leave it alone. Give it a prompt and uh expect it to to produce miracles. I mean >> people are already reticent given the hallucinations it produces and how confident it is in them in them too. >> Yeah.

I I'm just I'm just thinking we're like because because there many people are like super fixated on this idea that AI uh content and by the way we we do that right like we also we updated our homepage and now AI content creation is part of the services right but I can't see a world where just you know spitting out 400 pages overnight can have a a meaningful impact And you have to have like not just humans being like be involved but unique insights. So for example, you should let's say you have even let's say you have 400 keywords and you want to spit out this 400 pages. Sure. But a part of the workflow should be that you know we have this database or of transcripts from internal conversations or sales conversations or customer whatever and we pull inside so that we can like the AI can p them uh kind of um strategically inside the piece right so that it's not just an AI generated piece of text uh which is like you know very obvious that yeah this can cannot drive an impact. What I mean is that I can see I can see a world where like continent humans and um and AI can coexist um but only if like humans are willing to take the the extra step and you know like enhance the the the output of of AI using maybe you know even more AI but >> yeah I agree I agree.

I mean, I think that AI should be there to help with research, with structure, but people need to be there when it comes to the voice, to the tone, to the accuracy, uniqueness, perspective. I mean, having a different perspective, a different angle, looking at the same thing that's been said, but having a different perspective. I don't think that's something that AI can do in a vacuum. It needs somebody to already have come up with that idea. >> I I agree with you.

But like what what I think is that the AI can be and I'm thinking about like our our founder content service and like the again AI like I built a tool where basically it serves like a database for all the the transcripts that you have right and based on the idea and whatnot it will pull relevant excerpts from all the transcripts from all the interviews and it it will also tell you like this is from the interview that you did on I don't know December 10th right >> and I'm like How awesome is that? But then assuming you have humans write the content, like you should have a human go there and take that brief or part of the brief and use it to create something great, right? Or like if you if you want to kind of approach that from a different or at a different step in in that process, you can have AI knowing having all these context from all these conversations um take the draft and say that you know what but this is not actually accurate because you know I can't find I can't kind of confirm what you're saying based on any of the interviews that you've done with this with this executive with this founder with this whomever Right. So, Melissa, uh, do you have anything to add here? >> I do want to say that this conversation is very similar to the one that we had before AI generated content came on the scene, which is uh, if we take an SEO piece that is basically just a regurgitation of everything else that's already a top 10 results, um, where is the originality, where is the uniqueness of the brand, etc. So, it's very similar to that. we still needed good writers to make those pieces stand out uh while still satisfying right the the requirements for a high ranking etc. So this is a very similar conversation.

You still need humans to make it pop or humans who are very skilled at their job. Right? or to orchestrate to use a word that you know like is um is like growing in kind of uh usage uh to orchestrate the workflow that kind of enables AI to uh use these insights in a way that's scalable and you know high quality and so forth like you can build like we build these things like and these systems and it's great to see them but and and especially after like having seen them I can't accept that you can just create a piece of content which is just like as Milit just said I I will not attempt to say this word again but because it's difficult um just a recycling right of what's already out there right um you have to to like at least build the workflows for um creating something that stands out, right? That has more chances of uh getting visibility, whatever your objective may be, right? So, and you see that not just with uh content for Google search and AI search. You see that with LinkedIn content a lot like I can see a lot of LinkedIn content that's just um AI, right? Uh and I can also see and spot content that's AI plus uh you know, human input, right? And yeah, I don't know like I just think that you know a coexistence is possible and you can just build like amazing things with with you know all these tools that are available out there or if they are not you can just build them right so yeah >> yeah I mean I agree with all of you I don't want to let's say uh say the same things again but we all agree but that uh positioning is really really important moving forward and I mean positioning and as an over let's say uh part of the marketing mix because uh I mean the competition with AI and all these things happening is uh really high and also when it comes to content I mean it's not uh an error let's say to play the to play it safe. First of all, the competition is really high as I mentioned and not only that but there are also many people who are just spitting content out there and quantity now it's not an issue. So also it's not the only let's say parameter to look uh that could be quality because you may have quality but you also need let's say to produce the output.

So I can only imagine the coexistence as you mentioned George from AI and all these operations and workflows with human uh input and human in the loop who will let's say be responsible for the whole process and also someone who will actually lead the narrative and uh take into account to maintain let's say the brand identity. Uh so yeah uh let's see I mean from the market perspective I think that the sentiment is much better than it was not sure about SEO but AO seems like a trendy thing and seems crazy because it's not just the overlap but it's >> like the channel still gives you know it's crazy. Yeah, >> sure it's volatile. Sure, it's changed. Sure, Google, you know, like their intentions, I think, are not the best towards like publishers and websites and whatnot, but it still gives, right? So, I don't know.

I'm just having trouble uh understanding what are other kind of financially viable and ROI friendly um and lowmaintenance you know all these great things about SEO and AO uh SEO mostly not AO let's leave AO outside for now um have so has right so I don't know like it's crazy but it's a perception hit. Uh, and I think that, um, you know, like as you said earlier, like now that the dust kind of starts to settle, uh, we may see a more um friendly uh uh environment um um towards you know the channel. Yeah. And also the last thing before we uh let's say close this live is that from the other side from the service provider side that we are is actually uh a really interesting era because we have also to adapt on all these things but also all these discussions that we have with our clients and all these let's say concerns and so on. It's also kind of uh pushing us forward to create new things, innovate, uh start thinking about new metrics, way to explain our work, approve uh the effectiveness of the channels and so on.

So I see it as as a challenging let's say uh environment but this is for the good. I mean as I perceive it from everyone and yeah so if we don't see you uh until uh 2026 but I can only uh say that we will have more of these lives moving forward. Uh yeah happy new year to everyone and happy holidays and uh see you all. >> Yeah, thank you all for uh tuning in. Thank you guys for doing this and if anyone has you know questions feel free to reach out uh on on LinkedIn and uh just drop us a note.

Let us know what you think uh and let us know if you have any questions and I think that um you know we are kind of turning on the engine and uh at Musia and you should expect uh many uh great things um you know moving forward. Um yeah, thank you very much everyone. >> Thank you.


---

*Fetched: 2026-01-06T21:05:08.985Z*
*Source: supadata*